So the very last thing I wanted to
cover as network stuff is the idea of
measuring real user performance.
So this is a really cool idea.
It was actually something I didn't
get into until later in my career.
So what we would always
do is we would like,
again, we are like authoring a web app,
and
we look at it on our machine and we
are like, it is pretty fast or whatever.
We know the amount of
milliseconds that it takes.
And then somebody even asked
a question earlier about like, but
does it normalize that data based
on your network conditions?
And it does not.
But I think that's hinting at a really a
larger question, which is like, okay, but
how fast is it for your average user or
like how fast is it for
the bottom 10% slowest user computers?
Or something like that.
And so this idea came around a long time
ago of shipping some code that would
like sort of get the time that it actually
takes on their actual computer and
send it back to you.
So at its like absolute simplest, you
could stand up a service that takes like
maybe a username and event like
the page to load and a time, right and
you could have a database
that stores all that.
Then you could ship some JavaScript in
your actual app that looks like this.
And let's say this for loop that's doing
nothing is your page to load or whatever.
So you could do like a start
time using date time.
And then you could do some expensive
thing and then you could do an end time.
And then you can figure out the difference
yourself by doing n minus star and
then you could send that
to this cool service.
You can be like, whoa,
like most people, it takes one second.
But look at this, a few 100 people, it's
taking 30 seconds what's going on there.
And you can learn all sorta cool stuff
like, we have our data centers in the US.
But we're getting a really big,
African bump in users.
We should get a data center out there.
We should do something like that.
So this happens to us a lot
like at Twitter at startups.
You'll see your app will go big in a new
place that it hasn't been big before.
And all of a sudden everybody's kind
of crossing over the the data takes
a long time.
So this can be really cool to A, see what
how it performs on slower computers but B,
to recognize when something has changed,
like you have a new country city zone
that's getting really popular and
you wanna go add some resources to it.
So this is what we used to do.
But then we got this really cool thing
called console time, which is way better.
So instead of doing the math ourselves,
we could just console time
we could pass in a string.
Now we do the thing when it console
time end the same string and
then it keeps track of it.
It prints it out for us,
which is like super cool.
And it's also more accurate it prints
it out down to a more finite number.
So then that was the cool thing to do for
a really long time.
And now we have an even cooler thing,
[LAUGH] which I get really excited about,
which is the performance API.
And so, again, these are all doing
the exact same thing, right?
But it's like, instead of console time and
console time end,
you do performance, which is a global, dot mark,
and then performance.markend, and
then you can print out, mark and
measure is the technology,
so then I print out a random string,
and then which two things to compare.
So this is very much the same as, up here
where I would do like console and start.
But the cool thing about doing it this
way is not only do you get that time, but
it actually is like a standardized
thing that other browsers recognize.
So if you run some code like this,
and let me see if I have some going,
Yeah, so if you run some code like this
and you do a performance measurement,
which is what the tab
we're gonna cover next.
But if you do a record, and
then you refresh the page, and
then you stop the recording,
we can ignore a lot of stuff.
But we can see that my mark and measure
actually made it into a brand new section
called Timings in the Performance tab
where I can actually see how long it took.
I can interact with that.
So it's like way cooler than console
logging out, end minus start or
whatever you do a performance mark and
a performance measure, and
it'll actually show you in the Performance
tab, exactly how long it took and
what it was doing and
cool stuff like that.
So these are really cool
to add something like this,
whichever approach you take is fine.
And to stand up some kind of
service that receives all of it.
And you can really see how long it's
taking your actual users to load your
actual code.
The performance API also has
a bunch of really cool stuff.
I'm not gonna cover it in depth, but I did
just wanna show you so just on any random
site, you can do something like
Performance get entries by type,
and then you pass in a type.
So I'll print this get
entries by type of resource.
And it'll actually show me all
eight of the resources at grab,
which is the exact same stuff
that you see over here.
But you can start like brainstorming like
as you get more into this stuff that you
could totally build your own Tooling,
around, for example,
you could just take this, and
you could send it to your service.
So your user sending it in, and
now you can see the network waterfall, for
your users in real time,
as opposed to just you using your app.
Things like that.
You could do paints.
So every time the browser
has to do a repaint, and
you can see what was it called?
What did it?
What triggered it?
How long did it take?
All these really cool things.
So it's basically the same API that
Dev Tools is using to do its like network
stuff and things like that.
But now you can not only harness it by
making custom scripts where you can
actually grab that user data and
send it to a service,
you can way better understand how
long all these things are taking.
This was really cool.
I would just if I were you,
I just do like a performance.
And then do a dot and
just check out all these like very,
very cool things that it can do.
And MDN has really great
docs on the performance API,
which I've linked to up here.
It really opens up like a whole
world of stuff you can do.